# Project 1: Password Validation and Generation

In this project, we will create the foundation for our Password Storage system!

You will need to implement the Password Validation and Password Generation functionality. For now, implement these into your conditional statements. We will clean up the code later and place the functionality into their own specific functions.

## Task

- Start by updating the `storedUsername` and `storedPassword` variables to store a username and password for your project.
- Add your login check.
    - If the username and storedUsername don't match or the password and storedPassword don't match, inform the user that the credentials are incorrect, close the scanner, and return. This will end the code.
- The menu has been created for you, you only need to implement the password validation logic and password generation logic.
- Implement the password validation and password generation logic.
- Answer the questions in the `reflection.txt` file.

## Password Validation

Using the password provided by the input, the password must satisfy the following cases:

- At least 8 characters long
- Contains 1 uppercase character
- Contains 1 lowercase character
- Contains 1 digit

If the conditions are met, print out "The password is strong enough". If any condition is not met, print out "The password is not strong enough".

## Password Generation

Using the length provided by the input, the password generated should contain a mix of uppercase letters, lowercase letters, and digits. It must also match the same length passed in.

## Reflection

As promised, there is a short meta-cognitive reflection to be done in each project. Please work through the metacognitive elements after you finish coding.

## Specification for Grading

As a reminder about our grading system, Projects are graded based on the specification listed below. If you don't satisfy the requirements for a C, but an effort was shown, it will receive a D. If no effort was done and the code is generated by any GenerativeAI or given by another student, it will automatically receive an F. Otherwise, your grade will follow the requirements below.

If the `reflection.txt` is unanswered or does not demonstrate thorough thought behind the answers, your grade will go down by 1 letter.

### C

In order to get a C, you must have the following:

- Your `reflection.txt` must be complete with complete sentences outlining your process.
- Your code must compile with minimal errors
- Your login logic must be correct, preventing the user from doing anything further if their credentials are incorrect.
- Your password validation should check if the password is at least long enough and contain one of the checks (uppercase, lowercase, or digit).
- Your password generation should at least generate a string of characters of the appropriate length.

### B

In order to get a B, you must have everything for a C grade and the following:

- Your code must compile without any errors
- Your password validation should include at least 2 checks (uppercase, lowercase, or digit), beyond the length check.
- Your password generation should generate at least 2 of the 3 cases of uppercase, lowercase, and digits.

### A

In order to get an A, you must have everything for a B grade and the following:

- Given normal inputs, the code should not crash
- Your password validation should include all three checks (including length check)
- Your password generation should generate all three types of characters
- Your password generation should not allow the user to generate a password shorter than 8 characters.

### A+

In order to get an A+, you must have everything for an A grade and the following:

- Your password validation should validate for special symbols too, however, if the password includes special symbols, it is considered an "extra strong" password. This should not break any base/core functionality.
- Your password generation includes special symbols, if and only if, the user requests for it. This should not break any base/core functionality.
- If the user doesn't enter a valid number (meaning 0, 1, or 2), inform the user that their choice is invalid

## Submission

When you finish, push your code and `reflection.txt` to GitHub. Submit the URL to Canvas too.

